---
layout: post
title: Institutionalized
category: randomthought
description:"These walls are funny. First you hate ’em. Then you get used to ’em. Enough time passes, you get so you depend on them. That’s institutionalized.” — Red
---

On the evening of September 18th, I came back from Turkey. 
When I was in Germany waiting for my train on the platform to finally go home.
I received a notification that I was charged 60 Euros for 3 minutes of Whatsapp I used in Turkey.

I know, I know... My roaming plan is not the best.

I only had 300 Euros until the end of the month in my everyday account.

My rent back then was 210. Not big deal, right?...Well, not exactly. 

I also had to pay for 10 Euros (cellphone plan). That means I only had 20 Euros to survive 12 days, plus 4 Euros and something in cash that I had in my pocket at that moment. 

I didn't want to change my food habits only to survive 12 days with 20 euros. And I didn't take money from my "savings" account either or borrow money.

I remember that I was anxious and scared. I didn't know what I would do. 

My lack of knowledge about my roaming service put me in that "complicated" situation. I knew in my heart that sooner or later I would find a solution. But the thing was... My reaction

**<center> I was scared and anxious...</center>**
**<center> I felt LOST.</center>**

Few meters away from where I was, ther was a man in his mid-forties asking for money. He needed it for his train ticket. Since he looked like a homeless man some people didn't give money.
I lost sight of him.

I was focused on complaining about my situation. And suddenly, from nowhere, the man told me something. I didn't looked at him, not even heard what he said..."No", I just said.

"I won't give him anything, not even a cent... I _NEED_ this money", I thought.

Soon after that thought went through my mind, few more came across...

**<center> wait... I shouldn't stress about money...</center>**
**<center> This is wrong.</center>**

So, I did something.

I run towards the man and told me "I'll help you". I gave him all my money without hesitation. I said smiling "Goodbye, have a nice day" and walked away.

In my heart, I knew I had to do it. Not because it was the right thing, but for me... To help me.

I took my train 4 minutes after that. And for the whole journey back home I was relaxed. No more anxiety. No more fear. No more stress.

At the end, money comes and goes. You'll get stolen. Emergencies will show up. There will be recesions... You are going to lose money no matter what. It's a fact... And it doesn't depend on you at all.


But you can, on the flipside, make always more money. And that...

Depends 100% on you. 




