---
title: Value
layout: post
category: randomthought
---

I've been thinking about how to make sure I have a secure retirement while also enjoying life now. In the process, I've been learning about finance, which I find interesting. I've also picked up some ideas about how to make more money.

When it comes to securing your retirement, it's essential to save money. The more you can save, the better. So, how can I make more money?

Well, it's pretty basic. The more valuable you are, the more potential you have to earn more money. This brings me to a key concept that's guiding my career. Let me break it down:

- NOPAT: This stands for net operating profits after taxes, essentially the money I make for the company.
- Invested Capital: Think of this as my salary.
- Growth: This is all about increasing my salary.
- Cost of Capital (WACC): This indicates how much risk I pose to the company.

Now, let's get into the nitty-gritty of the basic valuation math:

- ROIC (Return on Investment Capital): ROIC is calculated as NOPAT(t) divided by Invested Capital(t).
- IR (Investment Rate): IR represents the rate at which Invested Capital changes over time in relation to NOPAT.

To apply this to my own life, I had to make a few adjustments:

```
Value = NOPAT(t) x [1 - IR] / (WACC - g)
Value = MoneyForCompany x [1 - increaseMySalary / ROIC] / RiskForTheCompany
```

Let's break it down further:

```
increaseMySalary = ROIC x (1 - RiskForTheCompany)
```

At the end I ended up to logical conclusions:

- Being loyal is a big plus for the company.
- The less they have to invest in you, the better.
- If they do invest in you, you need to help them make as much money as possible.
- I'll earn more if I contribute to the company's profits or make them save money.


I was an overkill what I did but it was still fun to prove it.
