---
layout: post
title: Free for the win
category: randomthought
---

How  would be the world if people just work on what they like, regardless the money they could earn, their academic background or connection that could make "easier" their life?
I know that money is important, but it shouldn't be the motivation behind your job.

I was reading a Wikipedia article about the game *Dwarf Fortress*, it says that its developers are making a living based on donations. 
Then I realized that Wikipedia is  also supported by donations.
And few seconds later, I started looking for projects that are supported by donations... And guess what... There are tons of them, and the people behind them put all their heart and effort to create this amazing projects.
And people are not only paying them back with money, but also with respect and knowledge. Most of them are open source and people over the world are sending bugs reports and pull requests everyday in order to make better the project. 

```
⁽⁽(੭ •̀Д•́ )੭*⁾⁾ Free FTW!ᵎᵎ
```

I was thinking, what could happen if people used all the available programs, books, games, tools, whatever in the world for free and in exchanged they donated some money to these projects? 
Just think about that... 

I am a person who support open source projects, use torrents and exchange books, basically I like free stuff.
Thus, I encourage you to not only support open source and free stuff, but also create your own open project. If you have one idea where to start just think about something you would like to use, play or read. 

