---
layout: post
title: Arduino
category: programming
---

Today was my first working with an Arduino. 
I have never used one before because I didn't have the opportunity to do so.
My first embedded systems were based on custom hardware and I used C or ASM to program the microcontroller embedded there.

Then, my next encounter with embedded systems was with embedded platform such as Raspberry PI or MK802-II with embedded Linux. In this case, I used them to run image/video processing algorithms. 
In the last year, I started using ARM microprocessors as bare metal.
I programed them using Makefiles, VIM and sometimes Eclipse, even though I hate it. 

Anyway, so far all my experience in embedded systems was following the basic idea of computer systems: code -> compilation -> linking -> binary. 
But yesterday I had to use Arduino-one (some project in my master studies), and I hate it. It was so boring. 

It's very easy to use but somehow the user have no idea what's going on behind scenes. 
If you are not an electronic/embedded systems engineer or computer scientist, but just a hobbyist who wants to do something cool, I think it's okay. However, if you are a professional you shouldn't use it on regular basis. 
I feel so fake and unreal, so boring. The real world is full of new technologies (new ARM-based microcontrollers, more complex ports, more complex sensors, more but less understandable interfaces) and challenges (money/space constrains). 

So the bottom line is... if you just wanna have fun once in a while it's okay to use Arduino (it's like using cheats when playing a video game), but if you are serious about learning and be professional, you might think at least 10 times before use an Arduino.
